1)

Documentation.txt

Getting Set Up

0) download our zipped project to desired location/directory
1) unzip CodeSnipExtension.zip
2) open chrome browser
3) click on 3 vertical dots on top-right corner of browser
4) select "Settings" from drop down
5) click "Extensions"
6) select "Load unpacked extension"
7) navigate to the directory/location where project is saved and click the CodeSnipExtension folder
8) press okay
9) ensure extension is enabled (checkbox should be checked)

Overview

The purpose of Snip & Save is to simplify the process of saving and locating code snippets
that you find important or helpful and want to reference at a later date. This application
helps programmers stay organized by identifying code snips when user is on our supported
websites, and generates a one-click to copy function and implements a save feature
so if the programmer wants to specifically assign a title to that code snippet, they can
do so and search for that piece of code whenever they would like in the future.

If a user clicks our Snip & Save icon in the upper corner of the browser on any of the following websites:

- stack overflow (fully supported)
- google developers (fully supported)
- mozilla developer network
- microsoft developer network
- national public mania npm

The extension will scan the page, looking for code snippets (marked by the "pre" tag in html)
and then returns those snippets inside the pop up box. For websites we "fully support" such
as stack overflow and google documentation, we have enabled a complete syntax highlighting
for users very much like some IDE environments like CS50 IDE or Atom or Sublime. On other 
sites, like Mozilla, MSFT Developer Network, and NPM (National Public Mania) we are not
currently supporting the syntax styling and highlighting, but all the code you need will appear
in the pop up box.

Users Guide

We suggest navigating to stack overflow or any similar website we support and searching
for a code problem you are interested in solving. Once you come to a page, and you can 
see that the original poster or the replies do share code, we can leverage the extension
and click too see a compiled and complete list of code snippets built for you, regardless of if you have
scrolled to the bottom of the page or not. The pop up box is where all the functionality
of the application resides. After clicking on the icon, you can see the snips and choose
the one you would like to copy to the clipboard or save. To copy to the clipboard,
click the icon on the left side (the one that looks like copies of paper) and then, you
can press Control + V or right click and paste into your
text editor or development environment. However, coders do not necessarily need that code
at that specific time. We wanted to handle this by implementing a save feature. The icon
to the left of the copy button is how we can do this and provided an input box to save a 
title to the database so you can search for those key words at a later date. Simply, type
the title inside of the box and click the save icon. You know the code is saved when you
see the term you just entered disappeared. At this point we do require users to add a title
and are error checking for valid input. We think this ultimatley this helps the user
so we have provided a search bar at the top underneath our title and logo. Notice that when
retrieving your saved code we refresh the pop up and only display that snippet. However,
if you do want to go back to the current page's snips, just click out of the extension,
allowing it to refresh and when you click into Snip & Save, all of the current pages
code snippets will reappear. It is important to know that when retirving your code snippets
from the database we need use the exact title and if you try to type in something that
does not exist will will let the user know. While we specifically limit users to 
Snip & Save code from the previously mentioned websites, please know that our application
is configured to be accessible from any website. For example, if you are on facebook.com 
but want to share code with a friend you found earlier, it does not in anyway require you
to go back to our supported websites, you have the ability to open up the extension right
there and search for any code you would like to share. Ultimately, the purpose of this 
tool is to facilitate the management and organization of the sometimes large amount of 
code programmers are tasked with handling. In one semester of CS50 we discussed a 
multitude of not only programming language, but libraries, mark up languages, and other
aspects of computer science. To bookmark everything we need for all these languages
can be quite a feat, but we believe that Snip & Save is the perfect app to organize,
copy snippets and empower users to get back to the most fun part - the actual coding!

Sample links to try out: 

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13117358/hello-world-js-v8-vs2010

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1077347/hello-world-in-python

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18088246/select-only-elements-who-directly-contain-text?noredirect=1&lq=1

https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/content_scripts




